kubenretes provide two variation :::: 
- minikube :::: single machine setup of kubenretes uses for dev and test purpose for local env. 
- cluster (k8s cluster) :::: multi host cluster setup used and prefer for production env. 

course focused about CKA --- certified kubenretes Adminitration 

minikube installation ::: 
  Minimum kubernetes Requirements:::: 
  - 2 CPUs or more
  - 2GB of free memory
  - 20GB of free disk space
  - Internet connection
  - Docker Desktop 

# https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/?arch=%2Fwindows%2Fx86-64%2Fstable%2Fwindows+package+manager   
  - Windows ::: 
      1. open your powershell as a Adminitrator 
         - winget install Kubernetes.minikube 

      2. kubectl is client command of kubenretes need to install. 
          download you exe file in your system using below links 
          https://kubernetes.io/releases/download/#binaries

          after this put in any path as choice of kubectl.exe 
           and setup env variables like we setup 

kubernetes Key Component :::: 
      essential components that make up a Kubernetes cluster up and working.
      - kubernetes deployment of applications and whole architecture depends on that. 

    kube-apiserver ::: kubernetes exposed and manage by kube api server. all the instructions provided by 
                       client directly facing to api server. 
    etcd ::: kubernetes all config data is stored by etcd in key value pattern. if any pod or resource failed etcd service trying to 
             heal your failures. etcd database store for kubenretes. 
    kube-schduler ::: schduler use to spin schduling algo for manage containres.assigns each Pod to a suitable node.

    kubelet :::::: kubernetes daemon service 

    controll-manager --- cloud-controll-manager ::  all services controll by this 

    kube-proxy ---- network based connection between kubernetes nodes 

    contol-plane and worker node                               

    kubernetes is always running pods. pods are small compute unit in kubenretes that manage your containers. 
    your containers in kubernetes running inside pods. pods are responsible to provide storage, network volumes
    security and contexts that requrire to spin and manaitain containers. 